In the last lecture, we had a look at event binding,
now before focusing on two-way binding and explaining what this is,
there's one other important thing you need to know about event binding.
Let's say before this button, we also have a label, server name
and then more importantly, we have an input which we maybe give a bootstrap class of form-control. Here
I want to allow the user to enter the name of the server which should get created.
So here, we could listen to the input event,
this is a normal DOM event provided by the input element which is fired whenever the user types
and here we could execute onUpdateServerName because it will be fired on every keystroke.
So let's add this method to our component here and now I somehow want to output what the user entered
right now, what the value of this field is. Now we can do this by passing $event here and
$event super important is kind of a reserved variable name
you can use in the template when using event binding. For this event, so only between these quotation marks
here, $event will simply be the data emitted with that event.
So input and click are default events provided by the DOM you could say
and they ship some data when they are fired, the click event gives us an object which for example holds
the coordinates where we clicked and the input event also gives us some data, some information about the
event. Now we can capture this data with $event passed as an argument to the method we're
calling or used anywhere between these quotation marks in the code we're executing, $event,
something to keep in mind, reserved word which gives us access to event data.
So now we pass this to onUpdateServerName,
so here we know we will receive this event and this will be of type any for now.
So now let's simply log it to the console, so that we can see it in this debug log.
If we do this and I now type something here, watch the console on the right. A couple of outputs were
written there, four to be precise because I typed four characters, did four keystrokes,
so the input event was fired four times
and if we have a look at this event, we get a couple of information here,
for example the target and the target simply is the HTML element on which this event occurred.
So here on the target, since this is an input element, if we scroll down, we also got the value, test and this
is what the user entered.
So what we can do now in our TypeScript code is we can set a server name property which is an empty
string by default
and then here in onUpdateServerName, instead of logging it, we could say this server name and we just
learned that on the event which is of type event as we now also saw, here we have a target and on the
target, we have a value. Now this is only available because the target is of type input element though.
This is why my IDE doesn't like it,
we can explicitly inform it about the type in TypeScript by adding HTML input element here
in front of it, like this
and again this is just needed to inform TypeScript that we know that the type of the HTML element of
this event will be an HTML input element.
We do this explicit casting with this syntax, with the opening and closing tag, with the smaller and greater
than sign and the type in-between.
So with that we assign this value to our server name, what we can now do is in the HTML file here,
we can output this for now.
So with string interpolation, we could output the server name below the input.
If we save this and go back to this application and I type test server here, you see this dynamically
updates below the input.
This is how you can use this $event object to fetch the event data.
Now with that, let's move on to two-way data binding to kind of finish this little example app here for
now.